docs/guides/admin/docs/workflowoperationhandlers/index.md, before:

# Workflow Operation Handler

## Introduction

Workflows are the central element to define how a media package is being processed by the Opencast services. Their
definitions consist of a list of workflow operations, which basically map a piece of configuration to Opencast code:

    <definition xmlns="http://workflow.opencastproject.org">
        ....
        <operation
          id="tag"
          <configurations>
            <configuration key="source-flavors">presentation/trimmed</configuration>
            <configuration key="target-flavor">presentation/tagged</configuration>
          </configurations>
       </operation>
       ...
    </definition>

## Default Workflow Operations

The following table contains the workflow operations that are available in an out-of-the-box Opencast installation:

|Operation Handler   |Description                                                    |Details|
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
|add-catalog         |Add a catalog to the media package                             |[Documentation](add-catalog-woh.md)|
|analyze-audio       |Analyze first audio stream                                     |[Documentation](analyzeaudio-woh.md)|
|analyze-tracks      |Analyze tracks in media package                                |[Documentation](analyze-tracks-woh.md)|
|animate             |Create animated video sequence                                 |[Documentation](animate-woh.md)|
|amberscript-start-transcription|Start AmberScript Transcription                     |[Documentation](amberscript-start-transcription-woh.md)|
|amberscript-attach-transcription|Attach AmberScript Transcription                   |[Documentation](amberscript-attach-transcription-woh.md)|
|asset-delete        |Deletes the current mediapackage from the Archive              |[Documentation](asset-delete-woh.md)|
|attach-watson-transcription|Attaches automated transcripts to mediapackage          |[Documentation](attach-watson-transcription-woh.md)|
|cleanup             |Cleanup the working file repository                            |[Documentation](cleanup-woh.md)|
|clone               |Clone media package elements to another flavor                 |[Documentation](clone-woh.md)|
|comment             |Add, resolve or delete a comment                               |[Documentation](comment-woh.md)|
|composite           |Compose two videos on one canvas.                              |[Documentation](composite-woh.md)|
|concat              |Concatenate multiple video tracks into one video track         |[Documentation](concat-woh.md)|
|configure-by-dcterm |Set workflow parameter if dublincore term matches value        |[Documentation](configure-by-dcterm-woh.md)|
|copy                |Copy media package elements to target directory                |[Documentation](copy-woh.md)|
|cover-image         |Generate a cover-image containing metadata                     |[Documentation](coverimage-woh.md)|
|crop-video          |Checks for black bars on the sides of the video                |[Documentation](cropvideo-woh.md)|
|defaults            |Applies default workflow configuration values                  |[Documentation](defaults-woh.md)|
|demux               |Demuxes streams to multiple output files                       |[Documentation](demux-woh.md)|
|duplicate-event     |Create an event by cloning an existing one                     |[Documentation](duplicate-event-woh.md)|
|editor              |Waiting for user to review, then cut video based on edit-list  |[Documentation](editor-woh.md)|
|encode              |Encode media files to differents formats in parallel           |[Documentation](encode-woh.md)|
|error-resolution    |Internal operation to pause a workflow in error                |[Documentation](error-resolution-woh.md)|
|execute-many        |Execute a command for each matching element in a MediaPackage  |[Documentation](execute-many-woh.md)
|execute-once        |Execute a command for a MediaPackage                           |[Documentation](execute-once-woh.md)
|export-wf-properties|Export workflow properties                                     |[Documentation](export-wf-properties-woh.md)|
|extract-text        |Extracting text from presentation segments                     |[Documentation](extracttext-woh.md)|
|failing             |Operations that always fails                                   |[Documentation](failing-woh.md)|
|google-speech-attach-transcription|Attaches automated transcripts to mediapackage   |[Documentation](google-speech-attach-transcription-woh.md)|
|google-speech-start-transcription|Starts automated transcription provided by Google Speech|[Documentation](google-speech-start-transcription-woh.md)|
|http-notify         |Notifies an HTTP endpoint about the process of the workflow    |[Documentation](httpnotify-woh.md)|
|image               |Extract images from a video using FFmpeg                       |[Documentation](image-woh.md)|
|image-convert       |Convert images using FFmpeg                                    |[Documentation](image-convert-woh.md)|
|image-to-video      |Create a video track from a source image                       |[Documentation](imagetovideo-woh.md)|
|import-wf-properties|Import workflow properties                                     |[Documentation](import-wf-properties-woh.md)|
|incident            |Testing incidents on a dummy job                               |[Documentation](incident-woh.md)|
|include             |Include workflow definition in current workflow                |[Documentation](include-woh.md)|
|ingest-download     |Download files from external URL for ingest                    |[Documentation](ingestdownload-woh.md)|
|inspect             |Inspect the media (check if it is valid)                       |[Documentation](inspect-woh.md)|
|log                 |Log workflow status                                            |[Documentation](log-woh.md)|
|multiencode         |Encode to multiple profiles in one operation                   |[Documentation](multiencode-woh.md)|
|normalize-audio     |Normalize first audio stream                                   |[Documentation](normalizeaudio-woh.md)|
|partial-import      |Import partial tracks and process according to a SMIL document |[Documentation](partial-import-woh.md)|
|partial-retract     |Retract a subset of the mediapackage from a publication        |[Documentation](partial-import-woh.md)|
|post-mediapackage   |Send mediapackage to remote service                            |[Documentation](postmediapackage-woh.md)|
|prepare-av          |Preparing audio and video work versions                        |[Documentation](prepareav-woh.md)|
|probe-resolution    |Set workflow instance variables based on video resolution      |[Documentation](probe-resolution-woh.md)|
|process-smil        |Edit and Encode media defined by a SMIL file                   |[Documentation](process-smil-woh.md)|
|publish-aws         |Distribute and publish media to Amazon S3 and Cloudfront       |[Documentation](publish-aws-woh.md)|
|publish-configure   |Distribute and publish media to the configured publication     |[Documentation](publish-configure-woh.md)|
|publish-engage      |Distribute and publish media to the engage player              |[Documentation](publish-engage-woh.md)|
|publish-oaipmh      |Distribute and publish media to a OAI-PMH repository           |[Documentation](publish-oaipmh-woh.md)|
|publish-youtube     |Distribute and publish media to YouTube                        |[Documentation](publish-youtube-woh.md)|
|republish-oaipmh    |Update media in a OAI-PMH repository                           |[Documentation](republish-oaipmh-woh.md)|
|retract-aws         |Retracts media from AWS S3 and Cloudfront publication          |[Documentation](retract-aws-woh.md)|
|retract-configure   |Retracts media from configured publication                     |[Documentation](retract-configure-woh.md)|
|retract-engage      |Retracts media from Opencast Media Module publication          |[Documentation](retract-engage-woh.md)|
|retract-oaipmh      |Retracts media from a OAI-PMH repository                       |[Documentation](retract-oaipmh-woh.md)
|retract-youtube     |Retracts media from YouTube                                    |[Documentation](retract-youtube-woh.md)|
|segment-video       |Extracting segments from presentation                          |[Documentation](segmentvideo-woh.md)|
|segmentpreviews     |Extract segment images from a video using FFmpeg               |[Documentation](segmentpreviews-woh.md)|
|select-streams       |Select streams for further processing                           |[Documentation](select-streams-woh.md)|
|send-email          |Sends email notifications at any part of a workflow            |[Documentation](send-email-woh.md)|
|series              |Apply series to the mediapackage                               |[Documentation](series-woh.md)|
|silence             |Silence detection on audio of the mediapackage                 |[Documentation](silence-woh.md)|
|snapshot            |Archive the current state of the mediapackage                  |[Documentation](snapshot-woh.md)|
|start-watson-transcription|Starts automated transcription provided by IBM Watson    |[Documentation](start-watson-transcription-woh.md)|
|start-workflow      |Start a new workflow for given media package ID                |[Documentation](start-workflow-woh.md)|
|statistics-writer   |Log statistical data about the video                           |[Documentation](statistics-writer.md)|
|tag                 |Modify the tag sets of media package elements                  |[Documentation](tag-woh.md)|
|tag-by-dcterm       |Modify the tags if dublincore term matches value               |[Documentation](tag-by-dcterm-woh.md)|
|theme               |Make settings of themes available to processing                |[Documentation](theme-woh.md)|
|timelinepreviews    |Create a preview image stream from a given video track         |[Documentation](timelinepreviews-woh.md)|
|transfer-metadata   |Transfer metadata fields between catalogs                      |[Documentation](transfer-metadata-woh.md)|
|waveform            |Create a waveform image of the audio of the mediapackage       |[Documentation](waveform-woh.md)|
|zip                 |Create zipped archive of the current state of the mediapackage |[Documentation](zip-woh.md)|

## State Mappings
Technically, a workflow can be in one of the following states:

| Technical State | Description | What the Admin UI displays in the events table|
|-----------------|-------------|-----------------------------------------------|
|**instantiated**| The workflow is queued and will be started as soon as possible | "Pending" |
|**running**| The workflow is running, no problems so far | "Running" |
|**stopped**| The workflow was aborted by the user | "Processing canceled" |
|**paused**| The workflow was paused and can be continued | "Paused" |
|**succeeded**| The workflow has completed successfully | "Finished" |
|**failed**| The workflow failed due to an error | "Processing failure" |
|**failing**| The workflow is still running, but there were errors. It will fail. | "Running" |

Using state mappings, it is possible to refine the labels displayed in the Admin UI events table for a particular
workflow.

Here is an example which displays "Retracting" instead of "Running" for the retract workflow:

```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definition xmlns="http://workflow.opencastproject.org">
  <id>retract</id>
  ...
  <state-mappings>
    <state-mapping state="running">retracting</state-mapping>
    <state-mapping state="failing">retracting</state-mapping>
  </state-mappings>
```

When no state mappings are configured for a workflow, the generic default labels will be displayed.

When a workflow includes other workflows, the event table only shows the state of the including workflow.

Commit message:

WorkflowOperationHandler "CutMarksToSmil"
This operation parses a JSON containing cut marks into a SMIL that can
be used by the VideoEditorWorkflowOperation. It does this by attributing
the given times to the tracks in the given presentation and presenter
flavors. This is useful in case you have cutmarks that need to be
applied to files that are created during a workflow.

Use-case example: Sending raw recording data from a web-conferencing
application to Opencast, where Opencast should first concatenate the
data and then cut the concatenated video file by user-defined cut marks.

Also adds a workflow showcasing the functionality.

Co-authored-by: Lars Kiesow <lkiesow@uos.de>

docs/guides/admin/docs/workflowoperationhandlers/index.md, after:

# Workflow Operation Handler

## Introduction

Workflows are the central element to define how a media package is being processed by the Opencast services. Their
definitions consist of a list of workflow operations, which basically map a piece of configuration to Opencast code:

    <definition xmlns="http://workflow.opencastproject.org">
        ....
        <operation
          id="tag"
          <configurations>
            <configuration key="source-flavors">presentation/trimmed</configuration>
            <configuration key="target-flavor">presentation/tagged</configuration>
          </configurations>
       </operation>
       ...
    </definition>

## Default Workflow Operations

The following table contains the workflow operations that are available in an out-of-the-box Opencast installation:

|Operation Handler   |Description                                                    |Details|
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
|add-catalog         |Add a catalog to the media package                             |[Documentation](add-catalog-woh.md)|
|analyze-audio       |Analyze first audio stream                                     |[Documentation](analyzeaudio-woh.md)|
|analyze-tracks      |Analyze tracks in media package                                |[Documentation](analyze-tracks-woh.md)|
|animate             |Create animated video sequence                                 |[Documentation](animate-woh.md)|
|amberscript-start-transcription|Start AmberScript Transcription                     |[Documentation](amberscript-start-transcription-woh.md)|
|amberscript-attach-transcription|Attach AmberScript Transcription                   |[Documentation](amberscript-attach-transcription-woh.md)|
|asset-delete        |Deletes the current mediapackage from the Archive              |[Documentation](asset-delete-woh.md)|
|attach-watson-transcription|Attaches automated transcripts to mediapackage          |[Documentation](attach-watson-transcription-woh.md)|
|cleanup             |Cleanup the working file repository                            |[Documentation](cleanup-woh.md)|
|clone               |Clone media package elements to another flavor                 |[Documentation](clone-woh.md)|
|comment             |Add, resolve or delete a comment                               |[Documentation](comment-woh.md)|
|composite           |Compose two videos on one canvas.                              |[Documentation](composite-woh.md)|
|concat              |Concatenate multiple video tracks into one video track         |[Documentation](concat-woh.md)|
|configure-by-dcterm |Set workflow parameter if dublincore term matches value        |[Documentation](configure-by-dcterm-woh.md)|
|copy                |Copy media package elements to target directory                |[Documentation](copy-woh.md)|
|cover-image         |Generate a cover-image containing metadata                     |[Documentation](coverimage-woh.md)|
|crop-video          |Checks for black bars on the sides of the video                |[Documentation](cropvideo-woh.md)|
|cut-marks-to-smil   |Parses timestamps into a SMIL for the editor workflow          |[Documentation](cut-marks-to-smil-woh.md)|
|defaults            |Applies default workflow configuration values                  |[Documentation](defaults-woh.md)|
|demux               |Demuxes streams to multiple output files                       |[Documentation](demux-woh.md)|
|duplicate-event     |Create an event by cloning an existing one                     |[Documentation](duplicate-event-woh.md)|
|editor              |Waiting for user to review, then cut video based on edit-list  |[Documentation](editor-woh.md)|
|encode              |Encode media files to differents formats in parallel           |[Documentation](encode-woh.md)|
|error-resolution    |Internal operation to pause a workflow in error                |[Documentation](error-resolution-woh.md)|
|execute-many        |Execute a command for each matching element in a MediaPackage  |[Documentation](execute-many-woh.md)
|execute-once        |Execute a command for a MediaPackage                           |[Documentation](execute-once-woh.md)
|export-wf-properties|Export workflow properties                                     |[Documentation](export-wf-properties-woh.md)|
|extract-text        |Extracting text from presentation segments                     |[Documentation](extracttext-woh.md)|
|failing             |Operations that always fails                                   |[Documentation](failing-woh.md)|
|google-speech-attach-transcription|Attaches automated transcripts to mediapackage   |[Documentation](google-speech-attach-transcription-woh.md)|
|google-speech-start-transcription|Starts automated transcription provided by Google Speech|[Documentation](google-speech-start-transcription-woh.md)|
|http-notify         |Notifies an HTTP endpoint about the process of the workflow    |[Documentation](httpnotify-woh.md)|
|image               |Extract images from a video using FFmpeg                       |[Documentation](image-woh.md)|
|image-convert       |Convert images using FFmpeg                                    |[Documentation](image-convert-woh.md)|
|image-to-video      |Create a video track from a source image                       |[Documentation](imagetovideo-woh.md)|
|import-wf-properties|Import workflow properties                                     |[Documentation](import-wf-properties-woh.md)|
|incident            |Testing incidents on a dummy job                               |[Documentation](incident-woh.md)|
|include             |Include workflow definition in current workflow                |[Documentation](include-woh.md)|
|ingest-download     |Download files from external URL for ingest                    |[Documentation](ingestdownload-woh.md)|
|inspect             |Inspect the media (check if it is valid)                       |[Documentation](inspect-woh.md)|
|log                 |Log workflow status                                            |[Documentation](log-woh.md)|
|multiencode         |Encode to multiple profiles in one operation                   |[Documentation](multiencode-woh.md)|
|normalize-audio     |Normalize first audio stream                                   |[Documentation](normalizeaudio-woh.md)|
|partial-import      |Import partial tracks and process according to a SMIL document |[Documentation](partial-import-woh.md)|
|partial-retract     |Retract a subset of the mediapackage from a publication        |[Documentation](partial-import-woh.md)|
|post-mediapackage   |Send mediapackage to remote service                            |[Documentation](postmediapackage-woh.md)|
|prepare-av          |Preparing audio and video work versions                        |[Documentation](prepareav-woh.md)|
|probe-resolution    |Set workflow instance variables based on video resolution      |[Documentation](probe-resolution-woh.md)|
|process-smil        |Edit and Encode media defined by a SMIL file                   |[Documentation](process-smil-woh.md)|
|publish-aws         |Distribute and publish media to Amazon S3 and Cloudfront       |[Documentation](publish-aws-woh.md)|
|publish-configure   |Distribute and publish media to the configured publication     |[Documentation](publish-configure-woh.md)|
|publish-engage      |Distribute and publish media to the engage player              |[Documentation](publish-engage-woh.md)|
|publish-oaipmh      |Distribute and publish media to a OAI-PMH repository           |[Documentation](publish-oaipmh-woh.md)|
|publish-youtube     |Distribute and publish media to YouTube                        |[Documentation](publish-youtube-woh.md)|
|republish-oaipmh    |Update media in a OAI-PMH repository                           |[Documentation](republish-oaipmh-woh.md)|
|retract-aws         |Retracts media from AWS S3 and Cloudfront publication          |[Documentation](retract-aws-woh.md)|
|retract-configure   |Retracts media from configured publication                     |[Documentation](retract-configure-woh.md)|
|retract-engage      |Retracts media from Opencast Media Module publication          |[Documentation](retract-engage-woh.md)|
|retract-oaipmh      |Retracts media from a OAI-PMH repository                       |[Documentation](retract-oaipmh-woh.md)
|retract-youtube     |Retracts media from YouTube                                    |[Documentation](retract-youtube-woh.md)|
|segment-video       |Extracting segments from presentation                          |[Documentation](segmentvideo-woh.md)|
|segmentpreviews     |Extract segment images from a video using FFmpeg               |[Documentation](segmentpreviews-woh.md)|
|select-streams       |Select streams for further processing                           |[Documentation](select-streams-woh.md)|
|send-email          |Sends email notifications at any part of a workflow            |[Documentation](send-email-woh.md)|
|series              |Apply series to the mediapackage                               |[Documentation](series-woh.md)|
|silence             |Silence detection on audio of the mediapackage                 |[Documentation](silence-woh.md)|
|snapshot            |Archive the current state of the mediapackage                  |[Documentation](snapshot-woh.md)|
|start-watson-transcription|Starts automated transcription provided by IBM Watson    |[Documentation](start-watson-transcription-woh.md)|
|start-workflow      |Start a new workflow for given media package ID                |[Documentation](start-workflow-woh.md)|
|statistics-writer   |Log statistical data about the video                           |[Documentation](statistics-writer.md)|
|tag                 |Modify the tag sets of media package elements                  |[Documentation](tag-woh.md)|
|tag-by-dcterm       |Modify the tags if dublincore term matches value               |[Documentation](tag-by-dcterm-woh.md)|
|theme               |Make settings of themes available to processing                |[Documentation](theme-woh.md)|
|timelinepreviews    |Create a preview image stream from a given video track         |[Documentation](timelinepreviews-woh.md)|
|transfer-metadata   |Transfer metadata fields between catalogs                      |[Documentation](transfer-metadata-woh.md)|
|waveform            |Create a waveform image of the audio of the mediapackage       |[Documentation](waveform-woh.md)|
|zip                 |Create zipped archive of the current state of the mediapackage |[Documentation](zip-woh.md)|

## State Mappings
Technically, a workflow can be in one of the following states:

| Technical State | Description | What the Admin UI displays in the events table|
|-----------------|-------------|-----------------------------------------------|
|**instantiated**| The workflow is queued and will be started as soon as possible | "Pending" |
|**running**| The workflow is running, no problems so far | "Running" |
|**stopped**| The workflow was aborted by the user | "Processing canceled" |
|**paused**| The workflow was paused and can be continued | "Paused" |
|**succeeded**| The workflow has completed successfully | "Finished" |
|**failed**| The workflow failed due to an error | "Processing failure" |
|**failing**| The workflow is still running, but there were errors. It will fail. | "Running" |

Using state mappings, it is possible to refine the labels displayed in the Admin UI events table for a particular
workflow.

Here is an example which displays "Retracting" instead of "Running" for the retract workflow:

```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definition xmlns="http://workflow.opencastproject.org">
  <id>retract</id>
  ...
  <state-mappings>
    <state-mapping state="running">retracting</state-mapping>
    <state-mapping state="failing">retracting</state-mapping>
  </state-mappings>
```

When no state mappings are configured for a workflow, the generic default labels will be displayed.

When a workflow includes other workflows, the event table only shows the state of the including workflow.
